# tiem-training

The USEPA has created and maintains a collection of open-source tools known as the Tools for Industrial Ecology Modeling (TIEM) that support modeling in industrial ecology and related disciplines. TIEM supports researchers and practitioners in identifying, acquiring, and processing facility or sector-level environmental and economic data and in developing models, such as life cycle inventory models, EEIO models, material flows analysis models, exposure and risk assessments and other IE relevant applications. TIEM is designed for users of Python and R languages that are interested in using U.S. environmental, economic or other activities data on industries in IE or related science and engineering applications. TIEM outputs are also available in tabular data formats outside of programming tools. TIEM is open-source and using TIEM can make research workflows more reproducible and help researchers save time in data acquisition and correctly synthesis data from various U.S. public sources. TIEM users benefit from the deep institutional knowledge of the federal data sources incorporated, the careful consideration that occurred related to acquisition and data treatment, the availability of complete time-series and complete sector and geographic coverage, along with the presence of full metadata and logs of validation checks, that went into TIEM development and/or persist in the TIEM code base and data products.

The purpose of this repo is to  demonstrate the utility and features of several tools that provide data on U.S. facilities and broader activities or sectors in standardized formats and allow users to develop sector attribution models (SAMs) which attribute these flow data to U.S. sectors at various levels of detail.

1. [Standardized Emissions and Waste Inventories (StEWI)](https://github.com/USEPA/standardizedinventories): A collection of modules that provide processed USEPA emission and waste generation facility inventory data in standard tabular formats.

2. [Flow Sector Attribution (flowsa)](https://github.com/USEPA/flowsa): Collect activity data (flows) from a range of public sources describing productive activities in the U.S. in all sectors. Supporting creation and execution of models that attribute flows such resource use, waste, emissions, and currency to economic sectors as well as final users as producers and consumers.

Users are invited to explore ways that these tools can be used to access and acquire data for their own research needs, and are welcome to contribute to the open-source code base.
